 It gives me immense pleasure in welcoming you to SCTR’s Pune Institute of Computer Technology, a premier and a very reputed institute. Pune Institute of Computer Technology, popularly known as PICT, was established in 1983, by a group of great visionaries, Late Mr. Dr. N. Gopalkrishnan, Mr. N. Rama Krishnan and Managing Trustee Mr. Rajkumar Kothavale. The ingenious founder team and Secretary Mr. Swastik Sir continue to lead PICT in its journey of excellence.
PICT, affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University is a pioneer in introducing Computer Engineering undergraduate program in Maharashtra state and it is recognized as the most sought-after institution, to educate young aspiring minds.
PICT offers Quality Education in Engineering and Research through its undergraduate, post graduate programs in CE, E&TC and IT and its research centres in CE and E&TC department. The undergraduate programmes are consistently accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA). The institution is also accredited by National Assessment Accreditation Council (NAAC) and is ISO 9001:2015 certified. It is graded ‘A’ by Director of Technical Education (DTE), Maharashtra state.
“Scientists study the world as it is, engineers create the world that never has been.” — Theodore von Karman
With a very Visionary Management, Dedicated Director, and committed faculty members, entire PICT Family strives to nurture the young inspiring minds to create avenues for the wellbeing of the entire world. Untiring and directed efforts by PICT are focused on out-come based education and preparing them for the real world.
The promotive culture and supportive ecosystem of PICT ensures excellent academic record of the students and drives their participation in numerous Co-Curricular and Extra-curricular activities. Beginning with flagship event of PICT- Impetus and Concepts, the student participation extends to various clubs and special interest groups, inculcating team spirit, professionalism, ethics, values and self-competitiveness among the students, thus, moulding them be better versions of themselves.
PICT has strong industry institute interaction to bridge the industry -academia gap by providing the student fraternity with the desirous exposure to the industrial cultural. Extra-ordinary opportunities of Placement with outstanding track record (qualitative and quantitative) makes PICT the most preferred learning hub. Several multinational and dream companies visit the campus for placement and internship opportunities. The institute caters to the diverse interests and ambitions of the students like entrepreneurship through its Start-up & Innovation Cell and Entrepreneurship Development Cell.
Faculty at PICT is a synergetic team of experienced and qualified minds. They are actively involved in research & development, product development and consultancy. They have fetched several grants from various funding agencies. This has also further helped student community to sharpen their research aptitudes and attitudes along with academic excellence, helping them in overall professional growth.
We, at PICT have excellent faculty, state-of- the-art infrastructure and laboratories. Spacious green campus, well stalked library and peaceful atmosphere that ensures wonderful learning.
Dear young friends, I am confident that your journey in PICT is undoubtedly, going the be the most rewarding, lifetime experience. So, make the best of your time, work hard & smart for your growth.
I once again Welcome all the young buddy minds - our future leaders to “PICT Family” and wish them success ahead. 